SOURCE: r/UIUC
DATE: 2023-06-04
TITLE: Experience with the LINC apartments?

Me and 3 other friends are incoming exchange students for fall next year and are currently looking for an apartment. We were wondering what your experiences are with the LINC apartments. 
Like is it safe (really European thing to ask I know) Isn't electricity expensive with the pool? How hard is it to sublet the apartment after a semester? Or any other things you feel like we should know/ think about are also welcome.

--- COMMENTS ---

Unsafe, would not recommend. You only pay electric for your bedroom, you don’t fund the pool
I don’t know much about the company but they very recently rebranded. The name “LINC” is very new. It could be just a simple marketing technique or it could be that they had shitty rep and wanted a reset.
    Spot on. Their reputation was shit so they’re trying to rebrand
I worked there last summer and it was a nightmare. Ridiculously unsafe, covered in trash, fights and domestic disputes constantly as well as a guy that kept breaking into cars and never got caught because there was one guard there for 400 apartments. I never got shot but a guy I worked with did. Also the pool is never open.
Tldr avoid at all costs. You might be better off being homeless.
Edit: they also had a roach problem in some of the buildings when I worked there lmao
    I signed a lease with them for the fall. Is there any way I can get out of the lease?
I wouldn’t recommend it any N Lincoln complex’s, it’s far from the university, it only has one bus option, the avenue it’s unsafe. You would not be able to sublease.
    Bye the way,search for ONE NORTH, it’s old name
Amazing rooms. Very spacious. Shaunice was very helpful with the tours for the apartment. She was really nice and helpful. Great place to stay
they take section 8

never rent from a place that accepts housing vouchers

housing vouchers = unsafe housing

downvote away
The old company was bought out. They fired every worker and brought in a completely new team. They also plan to invest millions into the property so it could be better but no guarantees.