SOURCE: r/UIUC
DATE: 2023-08-31
TITLE: sophomore apartment recommendations?

Looking for an apartment (hopefully near Green Street or Engineering quad) for next year. I’m looking anywhere from 3-4 roommates and hopefully something that’s not sketchy. Budget ~ 600-900

I was thinking about Smile on 615 S. Wright but heard it has pretty bad management.

I wouldn’t totally mind something that’s like a 15 min walk from the engineering quad but I wouldn’t want something too far.

Any recommendations?

--- COMMENTS ---

I live at 615 s wright. I have very little concerns with the management. The building usually has no problems so there aren’t many issues that management needs to get involved in
I would look at apartments owned by JSM and Bankier. I know green street towers is right across the engineering quad on green.
don't turn to this reddit for anything apartment related

total waste of your time.  just find a place that you like, location you like, within your budget, and you will be fine, 97 out of 100 times.
In hindsight, I actually really liked my apartment at 202 E Green St. Its owned by Bankier, and I've never had any problems with them. My rent was $830 for a 4 bed 3 bath, but that was because I was paying for parking on top of rent (I think our rent was $675, plus $75 utility package, while parking was $80). Everything was included. Its a nice building with a decent gym. Chopstix is on the first floor, if you like that place. Bus stop for the Green is right in front of it. It is definitely a lively place though. There was quite a bit of partying that happened there when I lived there.
    Hey thanks for the info! How early did you have to apply? i just looked and it says it’s already all leased out (or is it just saying it’s leased out for 2023-2024 year).
        I think that is just for this year. My roommates and I signed our lease at the end of the fall semester in 2019. They'll wait until September to send out resign-on offers to current tenants, after which they'll see how many units they still have left and open them up to the general public to tour and sign leases.
Hey! I just moved into a big house 3 blocks from campus on Oregon st, and am looking for 2 housemates.  I have one housemate currently.  The rooms are within your price range. My friends bought the house and I'm renting from them, so it wouldn't be with a big rental property management or anything like that, which i think is a plus! let me know if you're interested